In this lecture, we are going to recreate this form with a different API called the Settings API.
I'm going to be perfectly honest, I'm not a fan of this API.
That doesn't mean that other developers feel the same way.
You may come across this API in other plug ins.
For that reason I'm going to cover this API.
It's possible to create this page with PHP functions.
We do not need to hardcoded the templates onto the page.
The settings API was introduced for generating forms with PHP.
WordPress can handle updating our options in the resource section of this lecture.
I provide a link to the official documentation for this API.
You may be wondering why should we use this API over creating a custom template.
As noted by the documentation.
Using this API provides visual consistency, prevents your forms from becoming outdated, and can handle
basic security.
The goal is to reduce the amount of work for creating a form.
Let's give it a shot.
First, let's create a separate page for the form in your editor.
Open the menu's PHP file.
Previously we registered a page by using the add menu page function.
This function adds a top level menu item to the sidebar of the WordPress admin dashboard.
This time we're going to add a submenu.
It doesn't make sense to clutter the sidebar with various links.
We should try our best to organize our links under a single menu below this function.
Run a function called Add sub menu page.
The Add submenu page function will add a sub menu page to any top level menu on the dashboard.
The first argument of this function is the name of the parent menu.
We can add this some menu to our custom menu by setting the value to the same value passed in as the
fourth argument to the add menu page function.
In this case, set the name to up plug in options.
Afterward, we can begin configuring the title of the page.
The arguments are very similar to the arguments from the Add menu page function.
Let's set the title to the following translatable message alt udemy plus.
The third argument is the text for the menu.
The value for this argument will be the same as the value for the second argument.
Next, we need to set the permissions for viewing this page by setting the required capability.
Let's use the same capability, which is the edit theme options capability.
The fifth argument is the name of the plug in.
The name of our page will be called up plug in options alt.
Lastly, we must provide the function's name for rendering the page.
Let's call our function up plug in options alt page.
Next, let's define this function in the include slash admin folder.
Create a file called options page alt php.
Define the function in this file.
Within this function.
Let's add a div tag with a class called ramp.
Lastly, let's add a dummy message.
And the WordPress admin dashboard.
Refresh the page.
Under the Udemy plus menu we can find our custom menu.
Lets click on the link to view the page.
Our message gets rendered on the page without a problem.
That's perfect.
And the next lecture we will start rendering the form for modifying the options from our plugin.